hello everyone today I'm going to share
with you guys how I study because this
has been widely requested by people and
this was also hard prepared for my
finals so so much you guys already
thinking about your finals then maybe
this is helpful for you guys as well
alright so first of all the main thing
that my study method is based on is
keeping things compartmentalized and
everything in one place so that you
always know where it is and I found that
to be super useful because if you want
to start studying and then you waste an
hour just looking for your notes
that's waste of time that you could have
spent on the subject itself so that's
why I use boxes and I have six boxes one
for each subject I already showed that
in my dorm tour and I'm just gonna take
two of them and show you guys what's in
them so first of all I have global
politics here and inside I just have a
lot of flashcards and this may look a
little bit disorganized when looking at
it first but there's actually a system
to it so let's get into it
alright so all my flashcards are labeled
as well so you can see here that I have
this like sorry it's not really focusing
well but I have this like little um yeah
like they're not really headlines but
yeah like just I am right down the unit
or topic depending on which course it is
so that I know where what I'm studying
actually connects to the course and that
really helps because many of the IB
exams are structured according to topics
or units especially for subjects like
history or global politics you need to
know what topic you're studying in order
to pick the right question underneath
them so I just have these flashcards for
all of the different units that you
study angle politics which is for units
so I just have like four stacks of
flashcards I connected them with these
like rings because yeah I found that
just to be super helpful and then
they're easy to carry around and you can
bring them on a bus if you're studying
while going somewhere I also have the
key concept of the course broken down
because the chorus really builds on
these key concepts so these key concepts
are like not really theories but like
being
that just exists and politics and you
need to know them in order to really be
able to answer a question I also
sometimes use some figure flashcards you
can see here it because some concepts
are just too big or there's too much
content to of something that you cannot
condense it on one flashcard and that's
why I like to use these occasionally I
also write sheets like this one here um
this was actually a cheat sheet because
my teacher allowed us to bring one sheet
into our exam so I tried to like make
the most out of it and um yeah it
actually ended up being quite aesthetic
so like oh I'm gonna keep it that helps
me as well but I found flashcards to be
more convenient to just carry around and
I think if you have a little box like
this you can just take it and bring it
to the library and open it up obviously
that's like from a perspective of
someone who has a two minute walk to the
library because we live on campus um
yeah if you have a train ride or
something you might not want to bring
your box but yeah I still find
flashcards to be easier to carry around
okay and now I'm gonna show you guys
what it looks like with biology which is
just a very different course structure
in global politics the politics only has
four units and there's much less fury
and content to the course itself it's
more based on case studies which you
gain for talking about them for reading
and use etcetera for biology it's much
more this is de fiori this is the
content you know so there's more to
write down so here's my box for biology
and you see it's a lot fuller than my
box for Coco so in bio we study six
topics as Sarah Nova students plus an
option and yeah here we go so I have
seven stacks of flashcards um yeah you
see I also like draw on them every once
in a while because I just find it
helpful especially for bio if you have
diagrams or anything and yeah that's
just like a ton of flashcards but um you
know it's kind of motivating I could
sound stupid but if you take like all of
these flashcards you put them on your
table and then one by one you move one
stack to the other side because you
studied it it just feels great because
two stack which you study just grows and
you can see your progress
I also have some bigger flashcards for
biology for certain things that I just
felt like we're too big to put on these
small flashcards like an entire carbon
cycle or a diagram off to heart so you
can see that system can work for any
kind of subject and yeah just basically
get a box put your flashcards in make
sure your flashcards actually fit the
box but that usually isn't such a big
problem and there's one subject where I
don't use flashcards um that is history
I have some flashcards for history for
things like key terms or key individuals
in particular where I use it for but I
mainly use a4 sheets for history because
history is just a lot of content and I
found it to be not really efficient to
put it on flash cards because you just
like keep turning the flashcards like
until you like at the end of just your
timeline and you haven't even started
studying like anything like that
then links theories to your timeline so
that's why I found a fortune it's much
more efficient for history and I'm also
going to show you guys what they look
like so this is what one of my study
sheets for history looks like and so you
see it's still combined with flashcard
so this flashcard here is the timeline
of all the key events and it's
color-coded because every time the Year
changes I changed the color so that I
know I'll pay attention which year are
we in now and then after that I just
have a lot of key terms and then we get
to the actual content of the course and
for history I just found that to be
better because you can see like I can
fill these pages quite easily and now
this looks like it's not that much but
you know in history we studied that
prayer which was Nazi Germany we studied
Spanish Civil War and then we also
studied to move to global war and we
studied a lot of China Qing Dynasty and
communist China and then we studied
Japan until the Second World War so yeah
and then here we go that's quite a bit
of paper but just really helped me for
history in particular what I like to do
is I like to take these sheets and put a
piece of paper next to it and
write down the things I see under sheet
and that just helps me memorize it
because greater so many dates and I'm so
easy to mix up so by writing it all down
it's just kind of like puts it in your
brain I don't know like per meet up
method worked for the flashcards for me
it's usually enough to like flip through
we thumb region like two to three times
and then I quizzed myself wanted and
it's usually fine so what do you do now
that you have all these notes but you
have not studied from them yet what I
recommend is making a study plan so what
I did is I made a plan from February
until May for my finals and that was
like my big picture plan and my big
picture plan was actually quite detailed
so what I did is I wrote down every
event that I knew of at that point in
time that would happen until me so that
was things like college celebrations
weekend trips extracurriculars literally
anything so that I knew how much time
I'm going to have available on a
particular day and then I wrote down up
two free things that I want to study on
that day and it was really important
that I was being realistic with myself
of how much I can get done on a
particular day and that's not just about
how much time you actually have on that
day it's also about how tired are you
gonna be if you have football before you
can start studying you know you're gonna
be more tired so you cannot get as much
done as you want to or you might
actually have to take a nap and that's
okay but you need to plan for it so that
your study plan doesn't turn into this
unrealistic dream that's never gonna
happen
and I found it super helpful to hold
myself to these goals because if you
hold yourself to a plan and every day
you tick it off a it's super satisfying
and B you know what you're doing and you
don't feel like there's like huge thing
that you still have to get done but you
actually don't know how far you already
are and in order to also measure your
progress what I recommend is printing
out syllabus of your subject and then
going through it and checking it's this
on my flash cards is it not because if
it isn't you want to put it there so
that you don't sit in the exam and
realize that you haven't studied that
thing that's on the exam because that is
a terrible feeling so yeah don't let
that happen to you the syllabus is for
the IP are all available online
and your school should be able to
provide you of them so there was no
issue with that the thing that's really
important to know is that like I think
you cannot start taking notes at the end
of the year I think that's gonna be
enough if you want to have effective
flashcards to really allow you to
succeed in your exams you're going to
have to work on use for the entire two
years the IB program is a two years
program and that means you cannot do all
the work at the end of your two years
and I think that's really important to
recognize and my school really helped us
a lot because they had sessions on study
methods and stuff like that so we were
really aware of what we were getting
ourselves into
and that helped me then come up with a
method of making flashcards so that if I
would sit there the end of study leave
I'd only have like a few things left to
do but my notes and everything would be
done so study Neef was actually only
studying for me and not making notes and
I think that is a very effective thing
to do like personally I found that to be
helpful but yeah I mean everybody's got
to find their own method but I would
really recommend trying out study plan
you're not looking for studying for your
finals but only for is studying for
tests etc and I would recommend making
weekly plan and not like such a long big
picture plan because very often you just
will only tell you week in advance that
you have a test so that big picture plan
would continuously change and if you
print it out it's kind of always so I
would recommend just getting a planner
and writing down your free gold four day
writing down the absolute must to do's
like things that you really cannot push
another day and to get them done and
yeah I think it's satisfying tick it off
try to hold yourself to it but also
every once in a while ask yourself
what's my priority at the moment and for
some of you guys that priority will be
to go out with your friends at some
point but if you are aiming for say you
like going to a top university or I
don't know whatever you live on just ask
yourself it's going to be important to
have these grades and if it is hold
yourself to this plan if that is not the
most important thing to you which is
totally fine then by all means go out
and have some fun and I think it's
important that even if you have very
high goals every once in a while you
should go out as well and you should
plant that in as well because if you
don't have some fun on
every once in a while you're not gonna
be very productive after a while so make
sure to go out with your friends and
also enjoy life because after all two
years of only studying it's gonna be
quite that yeah yeah if you guys have
any questions about my study method
about University in general really
anything feel free to write me a message
and for my blog I'm gonna link it down
below and yeah I hope you guys like this
video and if you want to know more about
my life here in Hong Kong and about the
end of my university experience then
please check out my blog bye